Subject: 1 Career Opportunity (Schmidt Futures Challenges) + 2 Events (3rd Translational DS Workshop + Aetna Info Session)
From: Rachel Fuld Cohen <rachel.cohen@columbia.edu>
Date: 10/9/2018, 7:33 AM
To: DSICareers@columbia.edu
Reply-to: rachel.cohen@columbia.edu

The Schmidt Futures Challenges Project

The Schmidt Futures Challenges Project harnesses the power of technology, science, and people working together to take on 20 of the biggest challenges facing humanity over the next 20 years.  To accelerate progress against these challenges, Schmidt Futures discovers the best work being done around the world and the best people doing that work. They then supply resources (research, expertise, ideas), invest early stage financial capital, foster coalitions and partnerships, and deploy talent to join high-potential efforts that are already underway. Through their activities, Schmidt Futures’ seeks to inspire broader action from other funding partners, philanthropies, and organizations.  

The Challenges Project is now accepting applications for the initial cohort of its Associate Product Manager (APM) program, an entrepreneurial group of technologists who are motivated to change the world, eager to learn, and adept at seeing and bringing out the best in others. Through the APM program, Schmidt Futures brings together these talented young leaders with technical training in computer and data science, machine learning, and artificial intelligence--fields central to unlocking progress.  

Over the course of a two-year term, APMs will receive a broad exposure to how science and technology can be used to improve people’s lives.  They will receive personalized leadership training, have opportunities to deepen their technical skills, participate in APM class trips to field sites in the U.S. and around the world, regularly meet in small groups with CEOs and world leaders, and be mentored by a network of distinguished figures in technology, including Eric Schmidt, the former CEO of Google.  APMs will emerge from the program ready to manage technical teams, to start companies or non-profits, to be leaders at technology companies, and to be social and policy entrepreneurs.

The APM program entails a two-year, full-time commitment, during which the APM will be based in New York, with travel to Silicon Valley as well as potentially other geographies.  Schmidt Futures is looking for new or recent graduates with a technical background who have deep knowledge in artificial intelligence, hands-on experience or interest in applying AI technology to solve real-world problems, demonstrated abilities in forming and leading successful teams in dynamic situations, are able to listen, build relationships, and draw out expertise and supports from partners, are driven by principles and values, and love to learn and get things done.  

Applications are being accepted now through October 31st. If you are interested in applying you can find more background on this new program, including the application here. To stay up to date on recruiting information, Schmidt Futures invites potential applicants to fill a short form here.


The 3rd Translational Data Science Workshop

The 3rd Translational Data Science Workshop will be held on October 25-26th at NYU CUSP. This invitation-only event will explore challenges, use cases, and open questions of translational data science, as well as responsible data science. Our program will include panels comprised of Big Data leaders sharing their end-to-end experience in translational data science, as well as breakout sessions digging deeper into the topics raised, culminating in a workshop report collecting the insights surfaced over the course of the program. An agenda and other event details are available at nebigdatahub.org/3rd-tds-workshop


We'd like to invite interested students to join us as volunteers on October 25-26th, to capture important outputs from the proceedings that will be used in the development of the final workshop report.

Please contact ken2115@columbia.edu for information and to sign up.




-- 
Rachel Fuld Cohen

Assistant Director of Student Services & Career Development
Data Science Institute
Columbia University
500 West 120th Street
Room 432 (Mudd)
New York, NY 10027
(212)854-9325
rachel.cohen@columbia.edu
