Subject: 1 Career Opportunity (Ianuly Talent) + Cubist On-Campus Info Session (THIS Wednesday, 12pm)
From: Rachel Fuld Cohen <rachel.cohen@columbia.edu>
Date: 11/5/2018, 2:23 PM
To: DSICareers@columbia.edu
Reply-to: rachel.cohen@columbia.edu

Ianuly Talent Accelerators - Data Analyst
Ianuly Talent Accelerators is a company that helps startups grow their teams. Their founder and CEO, Laura Ianuly, was the global head of HR and recruiting at DoubleClick before they were acquired by Google.

They're currently looking for a data analyst! They'd ideally like to hire someone immediately for part time to start and then convert them to full time based on performance. 

They're a small team, and you'd be the data analyst, so you'd have to be comfortable with that kind of environment, and really comfortable with Python. They also prefer someone who's experienced with people-oriented data.

Lastly, they'd prefer not to sponsor but are open to it based on the candidates!

Please upload your resume below. Resumes will be reviewed on a rolling basis. 

    For those who can work indefinitely without sponsorship, upload here
    For those who will need sponsorship in the future, upload here


Cubist Systematic Strategies Info Session

Come learn more about Cubist Systematic Strategies, hear the head of our business, Ross Garon, speak about the systematic trading industry, and meet some of our research analysts and software engineers. 

 

Full-time and internship opportunities are available. Learn more about Cubist here.  

 

Wed., November 7th, 2018

12pm-2pm

CS Lounge, 4th floor, Mudd

 

Cubist Systematic Strategies is the systematic investing business of Point72 Asset Management. We deploy systematic, computer-driven trading strategies across multiple liquid asset classes. The core of our effort is rigorous research into a wide range of market anomalies, driven by our passion to understand the world around us and fueled by unparalleled access to a wide range of publicly available data sources.


-- 
Rachel Fuld Cohen

Assistant Director of Student Services & Career Development
Data Science Institute
Columbia University
500 West 120th Street
Room 432 (Mudd)
New York, NY 10027
(212)854-9325
rachel.cohen@columbia.edu
